Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?

Data structures are used in computing to make it easy to locate and retrieve information.
Primitive data structures are simple ways for programming languages to represent basic values.
These include data types like integer, char (character), Boolean, pointers, and the like. Non-primitive
data structures provide ways of storing multiple values in a single variable. These include arrays, lists,
stacks, trees, and so forth.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?

-Traversing, Searching, Inserting, Deleting, Sorting and Merging.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Data Strucures are mostly used in Database Operating System, Management System, Compiler Design,  Statistical analysis package,
Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence and Simulation.

what is an Array?

An array is a data structure that contains a group of elements. Typically these elements are all of the same data type,
such as an integer or string. Arrays are commonly used in computer programs to organize data so that a related set of values can be easily sorted or searched.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?


what is LinkedList?
Linked List is a sequence of links which contains items. Each link contains a connection to another link. Linked list is the second most-used data structure after array

How is an Array different from Linked List?

Array is static in nature i.e its length is fixed. You can’t change its size once it is created. Where as ArrayList is dynamic in nature.
ArrayList is also called as dynamic array or re-sizable array. Because, it automatically resizes itself if you try to add elements beyond its capacity.

what is queue?
 When a job is sent to a queue, it is simply added to the list of jobs.
 Computer programs often work with queues as a way to order tasks. For example, when the CPU finishes one computation, it will process the next one in the queue.


what is stack?
A stack is a container of objects that are inserted and removed according to the last-in first-out (LIFO) principle. In the pushdown stacks only two operations are allowed: push the item into the stack,
 and pop the item out of the stack. A stack is a limited access data structure - elements can be added and removed from the stack only at the top.
push adds an item to the top of the stack, pop removes the item from the top. A helpful analogy is to think of a stack of books; you can remove only the top book, also you can add a new book on the top.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
FIFO: First In First Out
 LIFO: Last In First Out.


what is the order of complexity?
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Binary search

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Hypothetical data set
what is tree in data structure?
Tree represents the nodes connected by edges.

what is graph in data structure?

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Hashtable is synchronized. It ensures that no more than one thread can access the Hashtable
at a given moment of time. The thread which works on Hashtable acquires a lock on it to make the other
threads wait till its work gets completed.
HashMap is non-synchronized. This means if it’s used in multithread environment then more than one thread can access and process the HashMap simultaneously.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
Network data model uses Graphs and Hierarchical data model uses Trees.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?

ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException means that you are trying to access an index of the array that does not exist or out of the bound of this array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Arrays.copyOfRange()
System.arraycopy()
Object.clone()
Arrays.copyOf()


What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Array is a collection of elements having same data type with common name.
Linked list is an ordered collection of elements which are connected by links/pointers.

What is DFS and BFS?
-Depth First Search: DFS is a method for exploring a tree or graph. In a DFS,
we go as deep as possible down one path before backing up and trying a different one. Here DFS explore one path, hit a dead end, and go back and try a different one.
-Breadth First Search: BFS is a method for exploring a tree or graph.
In a BFS, we first explore all the nodes one step away, then all the nodes two steps away and so on. BFS traverse the tree starting with the root.
What is Recursion?
Recursion in java is a process in which a method calls itself continuously. A method in java that calls itself is called recursive method.
What are linear and non linear data Structures?

Linear data fashion- Linked list is an example of linear data storage or structure. Linked list stores data in an organized a linear fashion. They store data in the form of a list.

Non Linear data structure- Tree data structure is an example of a non linear data structure. A tree has one node called as root node that is the starting point that holds data and links to other nodes.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Big O notation is the language we use for talking about how long an algorithm takes to run. It's how we compare the efficiency of different approaches to a problem.
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Merge sort
Heapsort
Quicksort
Bubble sort
Shellsort
Comb sort
Insertion sort
Selection sort
Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.
